"Perfection of means and confusion of ends seem to characterize our age"
"Common sense is merely the deposit of prejudice laid down in the human mind before the age of 18"
"Common sense is nothing more than a deposit of prejudices laid down in the mind before you reach eighteen."
"Since I do not foresee that atomic energy is to be a great boon for a long time, I have to say that for the present it is a menace. Perhaps it is well that it should be. It many intimidate the human race into bringing order into it's international af"
"Possessions, outward success, publicity, luxury - to me these have always been contemptible. I believe that a simple and unassuming manner of life is best for every one, best both for the body and the mind."
"Thought is the organizing factor in man, intersected between the causal primary instincts and the resulting actions."
"The foundation of morality should not be made dependent on myth nor tied to any authority lest doubt about the myth or about the legitimacy of the authority imperil the foundation of sound judgment and action."
"By academic freedom I understand the right to search for truth and to publish and teach what one holds to be true. This right implies also a duty: one must not conceal any part of what one has recognized to be true. It is evident that any restriction."
"Academic chairs are many, but wise and noble teachers are few; lecture-rooms are numerous and large, but the number of young people who genuinely thirst after truth and justice is small."
"Once we accept our limits, we go beyond them."
"Once you can accept the universe as being something expanding into an infinite nothing which is something, wearing stripes with plaid is easy."
"Strive not to be a success, but rather to be of value."
"Without deep reflection one knows from daily life that one exists for other people ."
"Remember your humanity and forget the rest"
"Never do anything against conscience, even if the state demands it"
"If one studies too zealously, one easily loses his pants."
"Never regard study as a duty, but as the enviable opportunity to learn to know the liberating influence of beauty in the realm of the spirit for your own personal joy and to the profit of the community to which your later work belongs."
"Enjoying the joys of others and suffering with them - these are the best guides for man"
"We have to do the best we can. This is our sacred human responsibility."
"Three Rules of Work: Out of clutter find simplicity; From discord find harmony; In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity."
"If A equals success, then the formula is: A = X + Y + Z, X is work. Y is play. Z is keep your mouth shut"
"The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing."
"Reading, after a certain age, diverts the mind too much from its creative pursuits. Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking."
"I thought marketing this product to kids ages four and older is outrageous,"
"Perfection of means and confusion of goals seem - in my opinion - to characterize our age"
"A photograph never grows old. You and I change, people change all through the months and years, but a photograph always remains the same. How nice to look at a photograph of mother or father taken many years ago. You see them as you remember them. But as people live on, they change completely. That is why I think a photograph can be kind."
"The world is a dangerous place. Not because of the people who are evil; but because of the people who don't do anything about it."
"I cannot conceive of a personal God who would directly influence the actions of individuals, or would directly sit in judgment on creatures of his own creation. I cannot do this in spite of the fact that mechanistic causality has, to a certain extent"
"All these primary impulses, not easily described in words, are the springs of man's actions."
"Scientific research is based on the idea that everything that takes place is determined by laws of nature, and therefore this holds for the action of people. For this reason, a research scientist will hardly be inclined to believe that events could b"
"Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new."
"But their intervention makes our acts to serve ever less merely the immediate claims of our instincts."
"I believe in Spinoza's God who reveals himself in the orderly harmony of what exists, not in a God who concerns himself with fates and actions of human beings"
"Human beings must have action; and they will make it if they cannot find it."
"All such action would cease if those powerful elemental forces were to cease stirring within us."
"The finest emotion of which we are capable is the mystic emotion"
"Try not to become a man of success, but rather try to become a man of value."
"It has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our humanity."
"Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one."
"The value of a man should be seen in what he gives and not in what he is able to receive."
"You have to learn the rules of the game. And then you have to play better than anyone else."
"The value of achievement lies in the achieving."
"A man has to work so hard so that something of his personality stays alive. A tomcat has it so easy, he has only to spray and his presence is there for years on rainy days."
"Look deep into nature, and then you will understand everything better."
"Heroism on command, senseless violence, and all the loathsome nonsense that goes by the name of patriotism - how passionately I hate them!"
"Nationalism is an infantile disease. It is the measles of mankind."
"Two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity; and I'm not sure about the universe."
"When you are courting a nice girl an hour seems like a second. When you sit on a red-hot cinder a second seems like an hour. That's relativity."
"The only thing that interferes with my learning is my education."
"The environment is everything that isn't me."
"Before God we are all equally wise - and equally foolish."
"Morality is of the highest importance - but for us, not for God."
"No amount of experimentation can ever prove me right; a single experiment can prove me wrong."
"Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity, and I'm not sure about the former."
"True art is characterized by an irresistible urge in the creative artist."
"The pursuit of truth and beauty is a sphere of activity in which we are permitted to remain children all our lives."
"The hardest thing to understand in the world is the income tax."
"It's not that I'm so smart, it's just that I stay with problems longer."
"The true sign of intelligence is not knowledge but imagination."
"We should take care not to make the intellect our god; it has, of course, powerful muscles, but no personality."
"Gravitation is not responsible for people falling in love."
"The only source of knowledge is experience."
"That deep emotional conviction of the presence of a superior reasoning power, which is revealed in the incomprehensible universe, forms my idea of God."
"Anger dwells only in the bosom of fools."
"I cannot imagine a God who rewards and punishes the objects of his creation and is but a reflection of human frailty."
"Perfection of means and confusion of goals seem -- in my opinion -- to characterize our age."
"The American lives even more for his goals, for the future, than the European. Life for him is always becoming, never being."
"It is, in fact, nothing short of a miracle that the modern methods of instruction have not yet entirely strangled the holy curiosity of inquiry; for this delicate little plant, aside from stimulation, stands mainly in need of freedom; without this it goes to wrack & ruin without fail. It is a very grave mistake to think that the enjoyment of seeing & searching can be promoted by means of coercion & a sense of duty. To the contrary, I believe that it would be possible to rob even a healthy beast of prey of its voraciousness, if it were possible, with the aid of a whip, to force the beast to devour continuously, even when not hungry, especially if the food, handed out under such coercion, were to be selected accordingly"
"Education is what remains after one has forgotten everything he learned in school."
"Bear in mind that the wonderful things you learn in your schools are the work of many generations. All this is put in your hands as your inheritance in order that you may receive it, honor it, add to it, and one day faithfully hand it on to your children."
"Information is not knowledge."
"Education is the progressive realization of our ignorance."
"According to this conception, the sole function of education was to open the way to thinking and knowing, and the school, as the outstanding organ for the people's education, must serve that end exclusively."
"It is our American habit if we find the foundations of our educational structure unsatisfactory to add another story or wing. We find it easier to add a new study or course or kind of school than to recognize existing conditions so as to meet the need. strangled the holy curious of inquiry. It is a very grave mistake to think that the enjoyment of seeing and searching can be promoted by means of coercion and a sense of duty."
"It's not that I'm so smart , it's just that I stay with problems longer ."
"I have just got a new theory of eternity."
"We owe a lot to the Indians, who taught us how to count, without which no worthwhile scientific discovery could have been made"
"Nationalism is an infantile sickness. It is the measles of the human race."
"Teaching should be such that what is offered is perceived as a valuable gift and not as a hard duty."
"Small is the number of them that see with their own eyes, and feel with their own hearts"
"The truth of a theory is in your mind, not in your eyes."
"Out of the multitude of our sense experiences we take, mentally and arbitrarily, certain repeatedly occurring complexes of sense impression (partly in conjunction with sense impressions which are interpreted as signs for sense experiences of others), and we attribute to them a meaning the meaning of the bodily object."
"It is easier to denature plutonium than to denature the evil spirit of man."
"The real problem is in the hearts and minds of men. It is not a problem of physics but of ethics. It is easier to denature plutonium than to denature the evil from the spirit of man."
"Newton, forgive me."
"Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow. The important thing is not to stop questioning."
"The world is a dangerous place, not because of those who do evil, but because of those who look on and do nothing."
"One reason why mathematics enjoys special esteem, above all other sciences, is that its laws are absolutely certain and indisputable, while those of other sciences are to some extent debatable and in constant danger of being overthrown by newly disco"
"You can't blame gravity for falling in love."
"It is, in fact, nothing short of a miracle that the modern methods of instruction have not yet entirely strangled the holy curiosity of inquiry."
"It is nothing short of a miracle that modern methods of instruction have not yet entirely strangled the holy curiosity of inquiry."
"E = mc2 Energy equals mass times the speed of light squared."
"The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing. One cannot help but be in awe when he contemplates the mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvelous structure of reality. It is enough if one tries merely to comprehend a little of this mystery everyday. Never lose a holy curiosity."
"Curiosity has its own reason for existence."
"Never lose a holy curiosity."
"To put it boldly, it is the attempt at a posterior reconstruction of existence by the process of conceptualization."
"The ideas that have lighted my way and, time after time, have given me new courage to face life cheerfully have been Kindness, Beauty, and Truth."
"Feeling and longing are the motive forces behind all human endeavor and human creations."
"The problems that exist in the world today cannot be solved by the level of thinking that created them."
"Everything that is really great and inspiring is created by the individual who can labor in freedom."
"We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created them."
"You can't solve a problem on the same level you created it."
"You can never solve a problem on the level on which it was created."
"When I read the Bhagavad-Gita and reflect about how God created this universe everything else seems so superfluous."
"I cannot imagine a God who rewards and punishes the objects of his creation [and] is but a reflection of human frailty."
"In my experience, the best creative work is never done when one is unhappy."
"What really interests me is whether God had any choice in the creation of the world."
"I know quite certainly that I myself have no special talent; curiosity, obsession and dogged endurance, combined with self-criticism, have brought me to my ideas."
"The individual must not merely wait and criticize, he must defend the cause the best he can. The fate of the world will be such as the world deserves."
"The monotony and solitude of a quiet life stimulates the creative mind."
"In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity."
"The legs are the wheels of creativity."
"The secret to creativity is knowing how to hide your sources."
"I lived in solitude in the country and noticed how the monotony of a quiet life stimulates the creative mind."
"The only way to escape the personal corruption of praise is to go on working."
"Each makes this cosmos and its construction the pivot of his emotional life, in order to find in this way peace and security which he can not find in the narrow whirlpool of personal experience."
"I know quite certainly that I myself have no special talent; curiosity, obsession and dogged endurance, combined with self-criticism have brought me to my ideas."
"Man usually avoids attributing cleverness to somebody else unless it is an enemy."
"Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow."
"Strange is our Situation Here Upon Earth."
"The minority, the ruling class at present, has the schools and press, usually the Church as well, under its thumb. This enables it to organize and sway the emotions of the masses, and make its tool of them."
"Since the mathematicians have invaded the theory of relativity, I do not understand it myself anymore."
"The only reason for time is so that everything doesn't happen at once."
"Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds."
"Human beings, vegetables, or comic dust, we all dance to a mysterious tune, intoned in the distance by an invisible player"
"Know where to find the information and how to use it - That's the secret of success"
"A person starts to live when he can live outside himself."
"Reality is merely an illusion, although a very persistent one"
"To understand the world one must not be worrying about one's self."
"Anyone who doesn't take truth seriously in small matters cannot be trusted in large ones either."
"I think that a particle must have a separate reality independent of the measurements. That is an electron has spin, location and so forth even when it is not being measured. I like to think that the moon is there even if I am not looking at it."
"If I were not a physicist, I would probably be a musician. I often think in music. I live my daydreams in music. I see my life in terms of music. ... I get most joy in life out of music."
"Setting an example is not the main means of influencing another, it is the only means."
"It is a magnificent feeling to recognize the unity of complex phenomena which appear to be things quite apart from the direct visible truth."
"We shall require a substantially new manner of thinking if mankind is to survive."
"To me the worst thing seems to be a school principally to work with methods of fear, force and artificial authority. Such treatment destroys the sound sentiments, the sincerity and the self-confidence of pupils and produces a subservient subject."
"Understanding of our fellow human beings...becomes fruitful only when it is sustained by sympathetic feelings in joy and sorrow."
"I cannot conceive of a God who rewards and punishes his creatures, or has a will of the kind that we experience in ourselves. Neither can I nor would I want to conceive of an individual that survives his physical death; let feeble souls, from fear or absurd egoism, cherish such thoughts. I am satisfied with the mystery of the eternity of life and with the awareness and a glimpse of the marvelous structure of the existing world, together with the devoted striving to comprehend a portion, be it ever so tiny, of the Reason that manifests itself in nature."
"The intuitive mind is a sacred gift and the rational mind is a faithful servant. We have created a society that honors the servant and has forgotten the gift."
"Why does this applied science, which saves work and makes life easier, bring us so little happiness? The simple answer runs: Because we have not yet learned to make sensible use of it."
"Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving"
"We have penetrated far less deeply into the regularities obtaining within the realm of living things, but deeply enough nevertheless to sense at least the rule of fixed necessity... what is still lacking here is a grasp of the connections of profound generality, but not a knowledge of order itself."
"MacMillan has this particular quote simply as God doesn't play dice. and notes that it is often quoted as doesn't play dice with the universe"
"Everyone should be respected as an individual, but no one idolized."
"When a blind beetle crawls over the surface of the globe, he doesn't realize that the track he has covered is curved. I was lucky enough to have spotted it."
"Two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity; and I'm not sure about the the universe."
"It is high time that the ideal of success should be replaced by the ideal of service"
"If I had my life to live over again, I'd be a plumber."
"On the big Bang theory: For every one billion particles of antimatter there were one billion and one particles of matter. And when the mutual annihilation was complete, one billionth remained - and that's our present universe."
"Watch the stars, and from them learn. To the Master's honor all must turn, each in its track, without a sound, forever tracing Newton's ground."
"Put your hand on a hot stove for a minute, and it seems like an hour. Sit with a pretty girl for an hour, and it seems like a minute. THAT'S relativity."
"I have no particular talent. I am merely inquisitive."
"The wireless telegraph is not difficult to understand. The ordinary telegraph is like a very long cat. You pull the tail in New York, and it meows in Los Angeles. The wireless is the same, only without the cat."
"Relativity teaches us the connection between the different descriptions of one and the same reality."
"Scientific research is based on the idea that everything that takes place is determined by laws of nature, and therefore this holds for the action of people. For this reason, a research scientist will hardly be inclined to believe that events could be influenced by a prayer, i.e. by a wish addressed to a Supernatural Being."
"I sometimes ask myself how it came about that I was the one to develop the theory of relativity. The reason, I think, is that a normal adult never stops to think about problems of space and time. These are things which he has thought about as a child. But my intellectual development was retarded, as a result of which I began to wonder about space and time only when I had already grown up."
"Two things inspire me to awe -- the starry heavens above and the moral universe within."
"Unless Americans come to realize that they are not stronger in the world because they have the bomb but weaker because of their vulnerability to atomic attack, they are not likely to conduct their policy at Lake Success [the United Nations] or in their relations with Russia in a spirit that furthers the arrival at an understanding."
"The school has always been the most important means of transferring the wealth of tradition from one generation to the next. This applies today in an even higher degree than in former times, for through modern development of economic life, the family as bearer of tradition and education has become weakened.The continuance and health of human society is therefore in a still higher degree dependent on school than formally."
"The point is to develop the childlike inclination for play and the childlike desire for recognition and to guide the child over to important fields for society. Such a school demands from the teacher that he be a kind of artist in his province."
"With the affairs of active human beings it is different. Here knowledge of truth alone does not suffice; on the contrary this knowledge must continually be renewed by ceaseless effort, if it is not to be lost. It resembles a statue of marble which stands in the desert and is continuously threatened with burial by the shifting sands. The hands of science must ever be at work in order that the marble column continue everlastingly to shine in the sun. To those serving hands mine also belong."
"Only a life lived for others is a life worth while."
"Imagination is more important than knowledge."
"Force always attracts men of low morality, and I believe it to be an invariable rule that tyrants of genius are succeeded by scoundrels."
"When the number of factors coming into play in a phenomenological complex is too large scientific method in most cases fails."
"I maintain that cosmic religiousness is the strongest and most noble driving force of scientific research."
"Lasting harmony with a woman (was) an undertaking in which I twice failed rather disgracefully."
"A man should look for what is, and not for what he thinks should be."
"The true value of a human being is determined primarily by the measure and the sense in which he has attained liberation from the self."
"Man tries to make for himself in the fashion that suits him best a simplified and intelligible picture of the world; he then tries to some extent to substitute this cosmos of his for the world of experience, and thus to overcome it."
"Problems cannot be solved at the same level of awareness that created them."
"Nationalism is an infantile disease, the measles of mankind"
"A finely tempered nature longs to escape from the personal life into the world of objective perception and thought"
"Setting an example is not the main means of influencing others; it is the only means"
"So long as there are men there will be wars."
"No, this trick wont work...How on earth are you ever going to explain in terms of chemistry and physics so important a biological phenomenon as first love?"
"Science is the century-old endeavour to bring together by means of systematic thought the perceptible phenomena of this world into as thorough-going an association as possible. To put it boldly, it is the attempt at a posterior reconstruction of existence by the process of conceptualisation. Science can only ascertain what is, but not what should be, and outside of its domain value judgements of all kinds remain necessary."
"The mystical trend of our time, which shows itself particularly in the rampant growth of the so-called Theosophy and Spiritualism, is for me no more than a symptom of weakness and confusion. Since our inner experiences consist of reproductions, and combinations of sensory impressions, the concept of a soul without a body seem to me to be empty and devoid of meaning."
"I cannot conceive of a personal God who would directly influence the actions of individuals, or would directly sit in judgment on creatures of his own creation. I cannot do this in spite of the fact that mechanistic causality has, to a certain extent, been placed in doubt by modern science. [He was speaking of Quantum Mechanics and the breaking down of determinism.] My religiosity consists in a humble admiratation of the infinitely superior spirit that reveals itself in the little that we, with our weak and transitory understanding, can comprehend of reality. Morality is of the highest importance -- but for us, not for God."
"The human mind is not capable of grasping the Universe. We are like a little child entering a huge library. The walls are covered to the ceilings with books in many different tongues. The child knows that someone must have written these books. It does not know who or how. It does not understand the languages in which they are written. But the child notes a definite plan in the arrangement of the books---a mysterious order which it does not comprehend, but only dimly suspects."
"Since I do not foresee that atomic energy is to be a great boon for a long time, I have to say that for the present it is a menace. Perhaps it is well that it should be. It may intimidate the human race into bringing order into it's international affairs, which without the pressure of fear, it would not do."
"Desire for approval and recognition is a healthy motive, but the desire to be acknowledged as better, stronger or more intelligent than a fellow being or fellow scholar easily leads to an excessively egoistic psychological adjustment, which may become injurious for the individual and for the community."
"He who finds though that lets us penetrate even a little deeper into the eternal mystery of nature has been granted great grace. He who, in addition, experiences the recognition, sympathy, and help of the best minds of his times, had been given almost more happiness than one man can bear"
"All our lauded technological progress -- our very civilization - is like the axe in the hand of the pathological criminal."
"Nothing will benefit human health and increase the chances for survival of life on Earth as much as the evolution to a vegetarian diet"
"I want to know God's thoughts...the rest are details"
"The discovery of nuclear chain reactions need not bring about the destruction of mankind any more than did the discovery of matches. We only must do everything in our power to safeguard against its abuse. Only a supranational organization, equipped with a sufficiently strong executive power, can protect us."
"There is not the slightest indication that (nuclear) energy will ever be obtainable"
"Before God we are equally wise and equally foolish."
"“I am satisfied with the mystery of the eternity of life and with the awareness and a glimpse of the marvelous structure of the existing world, together with the devoted striving to comprehend a portion, be it ever so tiny, of the Reason that manifest."
"Relativity applies to physics, not ethics"
"Desire for approval and recognition is a healthy motive, but the desire to be acknowledged as better, stronger or more intelligent than a fellow being or fellow scholar easily leads to an excessively egoistic psychological adjustment, which may becom"
"Logic will get you from A to B. Imagination will take you everywhere."
"He who joyfully marches to music in rank and file has already earned my contempt. He has been given a large brain by mistake, since for him the spinal cord would surely suffice."
"a brave man, whose only fault was being a woman."
"Not thoughtlessly submit to hereditary prejudices but honestly and courageously uses his intelligence."
"It is strange to be known so universally and yet to be so lonely."
"Hunger, love, pain, fear are some of those inner forces which rule the individual's instinct for self preservation."
"The gift of fantasy has meant more to me than my talent for absorbing positive knowledge."
"The most powerful force in the universe is compound interest"
"Mere unbelief in a personal God is no philosophy at all"
"Generations to come will scarce believe that such a one as this walked the earth in flesh and blood."
"Do you believe in immortality? No, and one life is enough for me"
"I cannot believe that God plays dice with the cosmos"
"I believe that a simple and unassuming manner of life is best for everyone, best both for the body and the mind."
"If people are good only because they fear punishment, and hope for reward, then we are a sorry lot indeed."
"Though our conduct seems so very different from that of the higher animals, the primary instincts are much alike in them and in us."
"A theory is something nobody believes, except the person who made it. An experiment is something everybody believes, except the person who made it."
"I cannot believe that God would choose to play dice with the universe."
"God always takes the simplest way."
"I like to think that the moon is there even if I am not looking at it"
"Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with the important matters."
"During the last century, and part of the one before, it was widely held that there was an unreconcilable conflict between knowledge and belief."
"I have never belonged wholeheartedly to a country, a state, nor to a circle of friends, nor even to my own family."
"It is not so very important for a person to learn facts. For that he does not really need a college. He can learn them from books. The value of an education is a liberal arts college is not learning of many facts but the training of the mind to think something that cannot be learned from textbooks."
"Isn't it strange that I who have written only unpopular books should be such a popular fellow?"
"Fortunate Newton, happy childhood of science. Nature to him was an open book. He stands before us strong, certain, and alone."
"[My] deep religiosity... found an abrupt ending at the age of twelve, through the reading of popular scientific books."
"[What guided Einstein was that, in his mid-twenties, he found the unknown intriguing. He felt compelled to comprehend what might have been intended for our universe by The Old One (as he referred to his notion of God).] We are in the position, ... of a little child entering a huge library, whose walls are covered to the ceiling with books in many different languages. The child knows that someone must have written those books. It does not know who or how. It does not understand the languages in which they are written. The child notes a definite plan in the arrangement of the books, a mysterious order, which it does not comprehend but only dimly suspects."
"The human mind is not capable of grasping the Universe. We are like a little child entering a huge library. The walls are covered to the ceilings with books in many different tongues. The child knows that someone must have written these books. It doe"
"My life is a simple thing that would interest no one. It is a known fact that I was born and that is all that is necessary."
"A theory can be proved by experiment; but no path leads from experiment to the birth of a theory."
"People like you and I, though mortal of course like everyone else, do not grow old no matter how long we live.... [We] never cease to stand like curious children before the great mystery into which we were born."
"Nothing will benefit human health and increase the chances for survival of life on Earth as much as the evolution to a vegetarian diet."
"You see, wire telegraph is a kind of a very, very long cat. You pull his tail in New York and his head is meowing in Los Angeles. Do you understand this? And radio operates exactly the same way: you send signals here, they receive them there."
"One should guard against preaching to young people success in the customary form as the main aim in life. The most important motive for work in school and in life is pleasure in work, pleasure in its result and the knowledge of the value of the result to the community."
"Common sense is merely the deposit of prejudice laid down in the human mind before the age of 18."
"Memory is deceptive because it is colored by today's events."
"Example isn't another way to teach, it is the only way to teach"
"For there is no secret and there is no defense; there is no possibility of control except through the aroused understanding and insistence of the peoples of the world. We scientists recognise our inescapable responsibility to carry to our fellow citi"
"I think and think for months and years. Ninety-nine times, the conclusion is false. The hundredth time I am right."
"Quantum mechanics is very impressive. But an inner voice tells me that it is not yet the real thing. The theory yields a lot, but it hardly brings us any closer to the secret of the Old One. In any case I am convinced that He doesn't play dice"
"Each of us is here for a brief sojourn; for what purpose he knows not, though he senses it. But without deeper reflection one knows from daily life that one exists for other people."
"How strange is the lot of us mortals! Each of us is here for a brief sojourn; for what purpose he knows not, though he senses it. But without deeper reflection one knows from daily life that one exists for other people."
"A hundred times every day I remind myself that my inner and outer life depend on the labors of other men, living and dead, and that I must exert myself in order to give in the same measure as I have received and am still receiving."
"Don't listen to their words, fix your attention on their deeds."
"Now he has departed from this strange world a little ahead of me. That means nothing. People like us, who believe in physics, know that the distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion."
"So long as they don't get violent, I want to let everyone say what they wish, for I myself have always said exactly what pleased me."
"And the high destiny of the individual is to serve rather than to rule, or to impose himself in any other way."
"Nothing is more destructive of respect for the government and the law of the land than passing laws which cannot be enforced."
"Wisdom is not a product of schooling but of the lifelong attempt to acquire it."
"The devil has put a penalty on all things we enjoy in life. Either we suffer in health or we suffer in soul or we get fat."
"We can't solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them."
"There are two ways to live: you can live as if nothing is a miracle; you can live as if everything is a miracle."
"I don't believe in mathematics."
"Dancers are the athletes of God."
"If most of us are ashamed of shabby clothes and shoddy furniture, let us be more ashamed of shabby ideas and shoddy philosophies... It would be a sad situation if the wrapper were better than the meat wrapped inside it."
"There is no logical way to the discovery of these elemental laws. There is only the way of intuition, which is helped by a feeling for the order lying behind the appearance."
"A knowledge of the existence of something we cannot penetrate, of the manifestations of the profoundest reason and the most radiant beauty, which are only accessible to our reason in their most elementary forms ð it is this knowledge and this feeling"
"The ideals which have lighted my way, and time after time have given me new courage to face life cheerfully have been kindness, beauty, and truth"
"To know what is impenetrable to us really exists, manifesting itself as the highest wisdom and the most radiant beauty... this knowledge, this feeling is at the center of true religiousness."
"The ideals which have always shone before me and filled me with the joy of living are goodness, beauty, and truth."
"Our task must be to free ourselves...by widening our circle of compassion to embrace all living creatures and the whole of nature and its beauty."
"The ideals which have lighted my way, and time after time have given me new courage to face life cheerfully have been kindness, beauty, and truth."
"I have never looked upon ease and happiness as ends in themselves - such an ethical basis I call more proper for a herd of swine. The ideals which have lighted me on my way and time after time given me new courage to face life cheerfully, have been Truth, Goodness, and Beauty."
"Joy in looking and comprehending is nature's most beautiful gift."
"I am satisfied with the mystery of the eternity of life and with the awareness and a glimpse of the marvelous structure of the existing world, together with the devoted striving to comprehend a portion, be it ever so tiny, of the Reason that manifest"
"I do not believe in the God of theology who rewards good and punishes evil."
"Unthinking respect for authority is the greatest enemy of truth."
"To punish me for my contempt for authority, fate made me an authority myself."
"I do not believe in immortality of the individual, and I consider ethics to be an exclusively human concern with no superhuman authority behind it."
"Most people say that is it is the intellect which makes a great scientist. They are wrong: it is character."
"Not until the creation and maintenance of decent conditions of life for all people are recognized and accepted as a common obligation of all people and all countries - not until then shall we, with a certain degree of justification, be able to speak of humankind as civilized."
"One may say the eternal mystery of the world is its comprehensibility."
"The strength of the Constitution lies entirely in the determination of each citizen to defend it. Only if every single citizen feels duty bound to do his share in this defense are the constitutional rights secure."
"I am neither especially clever nor especially gifted. I am only very, very curious."
"God is clever, but not dishonest."
"I want to know God's thoughts... the rest are details"
"You ask me if I keep a notebook to record my great ideas. I've only ever had one."
"When I am judging a theory, I ask myself whether, if I were God, I would have arranged the world in such a way."
"Men marry women with the hope they will never change. Women marry men with the hope they will change. Invariably they are both disappointed."
"If I had only known, I would have been a locksmith."
"The hardest thing in the world to understand is the income tax"
"“I never think of the future. It comes soon enough."
"I would not think that philosophy and reason themselves will be man's guide in the foreseeable future; however, they will remain the most beautiful sanctuary they have always been for the select few."
"There's a Genius in all of us."
"They come into being not through demonstration but through revelation, through the medium of powerful personalities."
"If at first, the idea is not absurd, then there is no hope for it."
"The idea of a Being who interferes with the sequence of events in the world is absolutely impossible."
"It is appallingly obvious our technology has exceeded our humanity"
"Nothing truly valuable arises from ambition or from a mere sense of duty; it stems rather from love and devotion towards men and towards objective things."
"From the standpoint of daily life, however, there is one thing we do know: that we are here for the sake of each other - above all for those upon whose smile and well-being our own happiness depends, and also for the countless unknown souls with whose fate we are connected by a bond of sympathy. Many times a day I realize how much my own outer and inner life is built upon the labors of my fellow men, both living and dead, and how earnestly I must exert myself in order to give in return as much as I have received."
"The true value of a human being can be found in degrees to which he has attained liberation from the self."
"I am absolutely convinced that no wealth in the world can help humanity forward, even in the hands of the most devoted worker. The example of great and pure individuals is the only thing that can lead us to noble thoughts and deeds."
"We cannot despair of humanity, since we are ourselves human beings."
"Remember your humanity and forget the rest."
"I believe in Spinoza's God who reveals himself in the orderly harmony of what exists, not in a God who concerns himself with fates and actions of human beings."
"“I cannot imagine a God who rewards and punishes the objects of his creation [and] is but a reflection of human frailty."
"It is every man's obligation to put back into the world at least the equivalent of what he takes out of it."
"Considered logically this concept is not identical with the totality of sense impressions referred to; but it is an arbitrary creation of the human (or animal) mind."
"The man who regards his own life and that of his fellow creatures as meaningless is not merely unfortunate but almost disqualified for life."
"Enjoying the joys of others and suffering with them - these are the best guides for man."
"The discovery of nuclear reactions need not bring about the destruction of mankind any more than the discovery of matches."
"Physical concepts are free creations of the human mind, and are not, however it may seem, uniquely determined by the external world."
"If God has created the world, his primary worry was certainly not to make its understanding easy for us."
"Reality is merely an illusion, although a very persistent one."
"The distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion."
"If I can't picture it, I can't understand it."
"Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited to all we now know and understand, while imagination embraces the entire world, and all there ever will be to know and understand."
"In that way imagination and intelligence enter into our existence in the part of servants of the primary instincts."
"Your imagination is your preview of life's coming attractions."
"The most evident difference springs from the important part which is played in man by a relatively strong power of imagination and by the capacity to think, aided as it is by language and other symbolically devices."
"To know is nothing at all; to imagine is everything."
"Knowledge is limited; but imagination encircles the world."
"It is a very high goal which, with our weak powers, we can reach only very inadequately, but which gives a sure foundation to our aspirations and valuations."
"When you sit with a nice girl for two hours, it seems like two minutes. When you sit on a hot stove for two minutes, it seems like two hours that's relativity."
"The value of a man resides in what he gives and not in what he is capable of receiving."
"It seems to me that the idea of a personal God is an anthropological concept which I cannot take seriously. I also cannot imagine some will or goal outside the human sphere."
"God does not play dice with the universe."
"Whoever undertakes to set himself up as judge in the field of truth and knowledge is shipwrecked by the laughter of the Gods."
"God is subtle, but he is not malicious."
"In a healthy nation there is a kind of dramatic balance between the will of the people and the government, which prevents its degeneration into tyranny."
"Many times a day I realize how much my own life is built on the labors of my fellowmen, and how earnestly I must exert myself in order to give in return as much as I have received."
"Do not worry about your problems with mathematics, I assure you mine are far greater."
"Great ideas often receive violent opposition from mediocre minds."
"Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler."
"No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it."
"There comes a time when the mind takes a higher plane of knowledge but can never prove how it got there."
"The road to perdition has ever been accompanied by lip service to an ideal."
"It is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creative expression and knowledge."
"Too many of us look upon Americans as dollar chasers. This is a cruel libel, even if it is reiterated thoughtlessly by the Americans themselves."
"Only one who devotes himself to a cause with his whole strength and soul can be a true master. For this reason mastery demands all of a person."
"Solitude is painful when one is young, but delightful when one is more mature."
"If you are out to describe the truth, leave elegance to the tailor."
"Sometimes one pays most for the things one gets for nothing."
"Imagination is everything. It is the preview of life's coming attractions."
"Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding."
"Occurrences in this domain are beyond the reach of exact prediction because of the variety of factors in operation, not because of any lack of order in nature."
"Common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen."
"Let every man be respected as an individual and no man idolized."
"If we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research, would it?"
"He who can no longer pause to wonder and stand rapt in awe, is as good as dead; his eyes are closed."
"Small is the number of people who see with their eyes and think with their minds."
"Force always attracts men of low morality."
"The faster you go, the shorter you are."
"Pure mathematics is, in its way, the poetry of logical ideas."
"Everything that can be counted does not necessarily count; everything that counts cannot necessarily be counted."
"In matters of truth and justice, there is no difference between large and small problems, for issues concerning the treatment of people are all the same."
"The whole of science is nothing more than a refinement of everyday thinking."
"When the solution is simple, God is answering."
"A perfection of means, and confusion of aims, seems to be our main problem."
"I want to know all Gods thoughts; all the rest are just details."
"Love is a better teacher than duty."
"Intellectuals solve problems, geniuses prevent them."
"Weakness of attitude becomes weakness of character."
"A question that sometimes drives me hazy: am I or are the others crazy?"
"Few are those who see with their own eyes and feel with their own hearts."
"Whoever undertakes to set himself up as a judge of Truth and Knowledge is shipwrecked by the laughter of the gods."
"The grand aim of all science is to cover the greatest number of empirical facts by logical deduction from the smallest number of hypotheses or axioms."
"I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination. Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world."
"Technological progress is like an axe in the hands of a pathological criminal."
"It is a miracle that curiosity survives formal education."
"Knowledge of what is does not open the door directly to what should be."
"As far as I'm concerned, I prefer silent vice to ostentatious virtue."
"If the facts don't fit the theory, change the facts."
"The difference between stupidity and genius is that genius has its limits."
"Science is a wonderful thing if one does not have to earn one's living at it."
"I used to go away for weeks in a state of confusion."
"Do not worry about your difficulties in Mathematics. I can assure you mine are still greater."
"Any man who can drive safely while kissing a pretty girl is simply not giving the kiss the attention it deserves."
"A person who never made a mistake never tried anything new."
"Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters."
"I live in that solitude which is painful in youth, but delicious in the years of maturity."
"The man of science is a poor philosopher."
"God may be subtle, but he isn't plain mean."
"Any fool can make things bigger, more complex, and more violent. It takes a touch of genius - and a lot of courage - to move in the opposite direction."
"I shall never believe that God plays dice with the world."
"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough."
"Without deep reflection one knows from daily life that one exists for other people."
"All that is valuable in human society depends upon the opportunity for development accorded the individual."
"I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination."
"Insanity: doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results."
"The attempt to combine wisdom and power has only rarely been successful and then only for a short while."
"Things should be made as simple as possible, but not any simpler."
"We still do not know one thousandth of one percent of what nature has revealed to us."
"People love chopping wood. In this activity one immediately sees results."
"In order to be an immaculate member of a flock of sheep, one must above all be a sheep oneself."
"The only real valuable thing is intuition."
"Everything should be as simple as it is, but not simpler."
"To raise new questions, new possibilities, to regard old problems from a new angle, requires creative imagination and marks real advance in science."
"It stands to the everlasting credit of science that by acting on the human mind it has overcome man's insecurity before himself and before nature."
"When I examine myself and my methods of thought, I come to the conclusion that the gift of fantasy has meant more to me than any talent for abstract, positive thinking."
"Concern for man and his fate must always form the chief interest of all technical endeavors. Never forget this in the midst of your diagrams and equations."
"The most incomprehensible thing about the world is that it is comprehensible."
"Most of the fundamental ideas of science are essentially simple, and may, as a rule, be expressed in a language comprehensible to everyone."
"The process of scientific discovery is, in effect, a continual flight from wonder."
"It should be possible to explain the laws of physics to a barmaid."
"The unleashed power of the atom has changed everything save our modes of thinking and we thus drift toward unparalleled catastrophe."
"Few people are capable of expressing with equanimity opinions which differ from the prejudices of their social environment. Most people are even incapable of forming such opinions."
"Make everything as simple as possible, but not simpler."
"Perfection of means and confusion of ends seem to characterize our age."
"Confusion of goals and perfection of means seems, in my opinion, to characterize our age."
"God does not play dice."
"I never think of the future - it comes soon enough."
"The high destiny of the individual is to serve rather than to rule."
"It gives me great pleasure indeed to see the stubbornness of an incorrigible nonconformist warmly acclaimed."
"A table, a chair, a bowl of fruit and a violin; what else does a man need to be happy?"
"Any intelligent fool can make things bigger and more complex... It takes a touch of genius - and a lot of courage to move in the opposite direction."
"Education is what remains after one has forgotten what one has learned in school."
"The distinction between the past, present and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion."
"We cannot despair of humanity, since we ourselves are human beings."
"The world is a dangerous place to live; not because of the people who are evil, but because of the people who don't do anything about it."
"As far as the laws of mathematics refer to reality, they are not certain, and as far as they are certain, they do not refer to reality."
"Never do anything against conscience even if the state demands it."
"Our task must be to free ourselves by widening our circle of compassion to embrace all living creatures and the whole of nature and its beauty."
"Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking."
"I have no special talent. I am only passionately curious."
"Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted."
"The world is not dangerous because of those who do harm but because of those who look at it without doing anything."
"There could be no fairer destiny for any physical theory than that it should point the way to a more comprehensive theory in which it lives on as a limiting case."
"To the Master's honor all must turn, each in its track, without a sound, forever tracing Newton's ground."
"He who joyfully marches in rank and file has already earned my contempt. He has been given a large brain by mistake, since for him the spinal cord would suffice."
"At the same time, as social beings, we are moved in the relations with our fellow beings by such feelings as sympathy, pride, hate, need for power, pity, and so on."
"If men as individuals surrender to the call of their elementary instincts, avoiding pain and seeking satisfaction only for their own selves, the result for them all taken together must be a state of insecurity, of fear, and of promiscuous misery."
"The human mind has first to construct forms, independently, before we can find them in things."
"I cannot believe that God plays dice with the cosmos."
"Innovation is not the product of logical thought, although the result is tied to logical structure."
"Innovation is not the product of logical thought, even though the final product is tied to a logical structure."
"Out of clutter, find Simplicity. From discord, find Harmony. In the middle of difficulty lies Opportunity."
"Work is 1% inspiration plus 99% transpiration"
"It is only to the individual that a soul is given."
"Let every man judge according to his own standards, by what he has himself read, not by what others tell him."
"While it is true that an inherently free and scrupulous person may be destroyed, such an individual can never be enslaved or used as a blind tool."
"What a person thinks on his own without being stimulated by the thoughts and experiences of the other people is even in the best case rather paltry and monotonous."
"The most powerful force in the universe is compound interest."
"How strange is the lot of us mortals! Each of us is here for a brief sojourn;for what purpose we know not, though sometimes sense it. But we know from daily life that we exist for other people first of all for whose smiles and well-being our own happiness depends"
"Long hair minimizes the need for barbers; socks can be done without; one leather jacket solves the coat problem for many years; suspenders are superfluous."
"Only a life lived for others is worth living."
"(Bias against the Negro) is the worst disease from which the society of our nation suffers."
"If we knew what we were doing it wouldn't be research."
"The search for truth is more precious than its possession."
"All these constructions and the laws connecting them can be arrived at by the principle of looking for the mathematically simplest concepts and the link between them."
"The analogy I like is this: imagine being able to see the world but you are deaf, and then suddenly someone gives you the ability to hear things as well - you get an extra dimension of perception,"
"We can understand almost anything, but we can't understand how we understand."
"The words of language, as they are written or spoken, do not seem to play any role in my mechanism of thought. The physical entities which seem to serve as elements in thought are certain signs and more or less clear images."
"Many of the things you can count, don't count. Many of the things you can't count, really count."
"Not everything that counts can be counted, and not everything that can be counted counts."
"Stand still. The trees ahead and bush beside you are not lost."
"“Nature hides her secrets because of her essential loftiness, but not by means of ruse."
"The fairest thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the fundamental emotion which stands at the cradle of true art and true science. He who know it not and can no longer wonder, no longer feel amazement, is as good as dead, a snuffed-out can."
"The opinion prevailed among advanced minds that it was time that belief should be replaced increasingly by knowledge; belief that did not itself rest on knowledge was superstition, and as such had to be opposed."
"Science is the century-old endeavor to bring together by means of systematic thought the perceptible phenomena of this world into as thorough-going an association as possible."
"Formal symbolic representation of qualitative entities is doomed to its rightful place of minor significance in a world where flowers and beautiful women abound."
"Science is the attempt to make the chaotic diversity of our sense experience correspond to a logically uniform system of thought."
"Where the world ceases to be the scene of our personal hopes and wishes, where we face it as free beings admiring, asking and observing, there we enter the realm of Art and Science"
"It would be possible to describe everything scientifically, but it would make no sense; it would be without meaning, as if you described a Beethoven symphony as a variation of wave pressure."
"One thing I have learned in a long life: that all our science, measured against reality, is primitive and childlike - and yet it is the most precious thing we have"
"Wisdom is not a product of schooling but of the lifelong attempt to acquire it"
"Brilliant spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds."
"There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle."
"Women marry men hoping they will change. Men marry women hoping they will not. So each is inevitably disappointed."
"Possessions, outward success, publicity, luxury -- to me these have always been contemptible. I assume that a simple and unassuming manner of life is best for everyone, best for both the body and the mind"
"The more I study physics, the more I am drawn to metaphysics."
"Mathematics are well and good but nature keeps dragging us around by the nose."
"We owe a lot to the Indians, who taught us how to count, without which no worthwhile scientific discovery could have been made."
"But there is another reason for the high repute of mathematics: it is mathematics that offers the exact natural sciences a certain measure of security which, without mathematics, they could not attain."
"To the extent math refers to reality, we are not certain; to the extent we are certain, math does not refer to reality."
"These thoughts did not come in any verbal formulation. I rarely think in words at all. A thought comes, and I may try to express it in words afterward."
"When a man sits with a pretty girl for an hour, it seems like a minute. But let him sit on a hot stove for a minute -- then it's longer than any hour. That's relativity!"
"If A equals success, then the formula is A equals X plus Y and Z, with X being work, Y play, and Z keeping your mouth shut."
"Try not to become a man of success but rather to become a man of value."
"The only mistake in life is the lesson not learned."
"I never teach my pupils; I only attempt to provide the conditions in which they can learn."
"The difference between what the most and the least learned people know is inexpressibly trivial in relation to that which is unknown."
"The mere formulation of a problem is far more essential than its solution, which may be merely a matter of mathematical or experimental skills. To raise new questions, new possibilities, to regard old problems from a new angle requires creative imagination and marks real advances in science."
"If I would be a young man again and had to decide how to make my living, I would not try to become a scientist or teacher. I would rather choose to be a plumber or a peddler in the hope to find that modest degree of independence still available under present circumstances."
"Please explain the problem to me slowly, as I do not understand things quickly."
"Science can only ascertain what is, but not what should be, and outside of its domain value judgments of all kinds remain necessary."
"Gravitation can not be held responsible for people falling in love"
"Space by itself, and time by itself, are doomed to fade away into mere shadows, and only a kind union of the two will preserve an independent reality."
"Only a life lived in the service to others is worth living."
"X is work. Y is play. Z is keep your mouth shut."
"Strange is our situation here upon earth. Each of us comes for a short visit, not knowing why, yet sometimes seeming to divine a purpose. From the standpoint of daily life, however, there is one thing we do know that man is here for the sake of other men."
"You cannot solve a problem from the same consciousness that created it. You must learn to see the world anew."
"The significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of thinking we were at when we created them."
"Personally, I experience the greatest degree of pleasure in having contact with works of art. They furnish me with happy feelings of an intensity such as I cannot derive from other realms."
"Problems cannot be solved by the same level of thinking that created them."
"The formulation of a problem is often more essential than its solution, which may be merely a matter of mathematical or experimental skill."
"The led must not be compelled, they must be able to choose their own leader."
"I have little patience with scientists who take a board of wood, look for its thinnest part, and drill a great number of holes where drilling is easy."
"How I wish that somewhere there existed an island for those who are wise and of goodwill! In such a place even I would be an ardent patriot."
"Every kind of peaceful cooperation among men is primarily based on mutual trust and only secondarily on institutions such as courts of justice and police."
"“If men as individuals surrender to the call of their elementary instincts, avoiding pain and seeking satisfaction only for their own selves, the result for them all taken together must be a state of insecurity, of fear, and of promiscuous misery."
"Mere unbelief in a personal God is no philosophy at all."
"Time and space are modes by which we think and not conditions in which we live."
